---
layout: coursepost
title: "CS373 - Final Presentation Schedule"
description: Final presentations schedule
tags: [Teaching, Writing, Presenting, Research] # add tag
location: "Collegeville, MN, USA"
---

## CSCI 373: Spring 2022 Final Presentation Schedule

### Location: Room 251, Main Building, CSB and Virtual via Zoom

Family and friends are welcome to attend in person or via Zoom.  

For Zoom participation, they must register via Zoom to receive the connection link via email. The same Zoom link works for both sessions.

Register in advance for this meeting: [Zoom Registration Link](https://csbsju.zoom.us/meeting/register/tJIkc-6vqzwtE9eoI0Y1QmcpNvR96kqv4WRD)


### Session 1: 10:00 am - 12:00 noon, Tuesday, May 3

| **Time** | **Speaker** | **Title** | **Abstract** |
| -------- | ----------- | --------- | ------------ |
10:00 | Steven Mak |What Happens in Blockchain, Stays in Blockchain |Blockchain distributes blocks containing information to every user within that specific blockchain system. The blockchain uses smart contracts to organize and calculate data to generate blocks. These programs, however, struggle in optimization when it comes to performing a large number of complex transactions. This creates lower performing programs where cryptocurrency like bitcoin can perform only 7 transactions per second while VISA can process 1,700 transactions per second. In this paper, we will introduce new system designs and algorithms for smart contract to improve the speed and efficiency of blockchain systems. Our findings will conclude that parallel processes and concurrency can optimize these systems more than the standard sequential processes. While these findings may not be the secret to creating the ultimate blockchain, they do lead us on the path to creating a better, safer, and faster transaction system than any other. |
10:15 | Diego Alvarez |The Translator | Application programming interfaces (APIs) are the core of any system, they are the translator between the front end and server-side/backend. Our research shows that there are Public, Private, Partner, and Composite APIs all of which are used differently. An important piece we found in our research is Microservices, which include API Gateways, Monitoring Layers, Service Registry, and APIs. All are designed to provide flow control for a different amount of user requests that are flowing in and out of the system and making sure user requests are executed. Lastly, we looked at its involvement in cloud computing and how we are seeing new cloud services like Software as a Service (SaaS), Platform as a Service (PaaS), and Infrastructure as a Service (IaaS) which are backed up by powerful APIs. Ever since APIs were first introduced, they brought significant value to different systems and will continue to be a valuable piece of today’s technology and in the future.|
10:30 | Ben Richards |The Pick is Good! Can machines make better draft decisions than humans? |The growing use of analytics in professional sports has created an environment for computer science to net closely to what teams try to achieve when making personnel decisions. Teams that embrace analytics rely on algorithms and statistics to create ideas for who creates the best chances of winning and contribute continuous success. Machine learning(ML) algorithms optimize this process making thousands of comparisons and data collections a second. Right now there are a lot of professional prospects and athletes that are not optimal value to their team, either with their selection in the draft or contract given in free agency. ML describes which players have more qualifications and ground for comparison, and provides comprehensive analysis to limit these non-optimal situations. By determining the current state of machine learning in sport, and looking deeply into the algorithms and methods that go into them, we determine if there are practical future implications for ML in sport. |
10:45 | Leo Braun | Computer-made Humans: an Analysis of how Neural Networks Create 3D Models| This presentation aims to accurately show how neural rendering is a revolutionary approach to the creation of 3D models for use in movies, video games, and other forms of media. I will attempt to give the reader a clear understanding of neural rendering by talking about what it is, the technical aspects that go into it, and predict how it may improve and legal issues that may arise with this technology.  |
11:00 | Carter Donat |Energy Management Systems | Solar farms to hybrid electric vehicles both require a form of management system. Why we are looking into this. These systems require managing because they both have different ways, they can operate, to perform the task that is needed. They bring up these questions. What is the best way to manage these highly capable systems? How can these systems become the most efficient and the least cost effective? Research proved that reinforcement learning, and deep reinforcement learning are, at this time, the best way to manage these complex systems. In this paper the following will be covered, solar arrays for homes managed by reinforcement learning, and hybrid electric vehicles with two propulsion devices manages by deep reinforcement learning. |
11:15 | Ben Murray |Predicting Baseball using Neural Networks |Baseball is known as one of the hardest sports to predict. A common saying within the game is "Any team can win on a given day". A human can have a fifty-fifty shot at predicting a correct winner, but what if we could do better? By utilizing neural networks, improved accuracy may be achievable. When given an input vector of values, a neural network passes data across its many layers in order to output a number between zero and one. In this instance, a 1 would indicate a win and a 0 would be a loss. The mean accuracy of a neural network predicting baseball outcomes currently sits at 55%, however some research has improved upon that due to the methodologies applied and the input data used.  |
11:30 | Jerome Newhouse |AI trading Algorithms |The US equity market is valued at over $53 trillion, with billions of trades made each day.  Companies and individuals are turning to AI algorithms to allow quicker and more accurate analysis to gain an edge over the competition.  AI algorithms can replicate fundamental and technical analysis to recommend what stocks to buy and predict future prices.  This paper explores two algorithms used to replicate technical analysis and how they work: Extreme Learning machines (ELM) and Long Short-Term Memory (LSTM).  The paper also explores why more people are using AI algorithms for trading and why revenue attributed to AI trading algorithms will increase.  Finally, it investigates some of the problems that have arisen due to AI algorithms and trading methods like High-Frequency Trading (HFT) that utilize AI algorithms like price manipulation and flash crashes. |

### Session 2: 10:00 am - 12:00 noon, Thursday, May 5

| **Time** | **Speaker** | **Title** | **Abstract** |
| -------- | ----------- | --------- | ------------ |
10:00 | Mason Hiemer | Demystify Noise in Video Games|Procedural content generation (PCG) techniques are often complicated and hard to understand. This paper wishes to demystify procedural content for video games (PCGG) and focus on Noise, the easiest and most versatile entry point. This paper includes an overview and definition of PCGG then dives into the fundamentals of noise functions. It compares the types of Noise, analyzes the usage through popular video games, and exemplifies its application through code. This can be useful for indie game development and is applicable with many other procedural methods. Noise is still a growing field and variations of it, like Simplex Noise, are being refined for its versatility today.  |
10:15 | John Engh | RISC-V: A New Era of Computing? | RISC strictly divides instructions into either load, store, or math operations. RISC-V is the result of five iterations to create ISAs useful for teaching. Because of its open nature, companies are using and iterating on RISC-V without royalties. This paper covers a basic overview of what RISC-V is, what is important in processor design, how RISC-V is unique, basic components of the RISC-V design including its relevance, how instructions are decoded, the fetch, decode, execute cycle and pipelining, binary arithmetic including issues with overflows, the calling conventions for compilers, how the base RISC-V instruction set architecture (ISA) can be added onto with extensions, and explores what the future of RISC-V will be over the next six-months. |
10:30 | Nick Pink | The Future of AI: an Exploration of Consciousness| As AI gets more and more sophisticated, they also become more and more humanlike – more conscious. But what is consciousness for AI, and does it even matter? What follows is a look at what it might mean to be conscious. This involves an exploration of philosophy, neuroscience, and because this question has to do with AI, it also involves computer science. Knowing some of the current ways that artificial intelligence can learn, such as deep learning which involves neural networks, and cognitive architectures which use research in cognitive psychology to create a computer model of cognition, a possible path to a future with conscious AI can be envisioned. Current research points to AI reaching a human-level in the next thirty years, potentially through machine learning algorithms like deep learning and reinforcement learning, or through the use of cognitive architectures.|
10:45 | Nicholas Larson | Ray Tracing and Light Imitation in Computer Graphics | TBA |
11:00 | Maddie Stringer | Web Design and First Time Usage: Navigation for New Users | Web design is an oft overlooked but necessary part of creating a website. This can be especially true when a new user tries to navigate it. Web design, when implemented poorly, can lead to a confusing and even frustrating experience for users. It falls to the designer to implement a web development team's code in such a way that makes the first time user experience one that will encourage the user to keep returning to the site. Using psychology, aesthetic principles, accessibility, and common conventions, this study will discuss strategies to help in this endeavor, as well as go over good and bad examples of web design. The future of web design and possible trends that will take hold will also be discussed. In covering these topics, the unfamiliar to web design will gain a further understanding of the field, and its relevancy to people of all description.|
11:15 | Joseph Mathias |Comparing Techniques for Predicting Stocks  |The stock market has always been volatile meaning its hard to be able to accurately predict how a stock is going to move. This has been a problem for as long as stocks have been around. There are many variables that can go into how a stock moves with some not being able to be accounted for using machine learning models. The aim of our research was to be able to see which models more accurately predict stocks comparing basic machine learning models against more advanced deep learning models. We fed these models data from real stocks and found that the Long Short Term Memory(LSTM) deep learning model was more accurate than the multivariate regression machine learning model by around ten percent in most cases using Root Mean Square Error(RMSE) as the accuracy score. Knowing that the deep learning models perform more accurately than the basic machine learning models will lead to more investments in deep learning models in the future in order to maximize monetary gains in the stock market.  |
11:30 | Joseph Laux |TBA |TBA |


